.\" COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1999 J.H.M. Dassen (Ray) <jdassen@wi.LeidenUniv.nl>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are 
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a 
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
.\" into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
.\" except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
.\" by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. <URL:http://www.fsf.org>
.\"
.\" END COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE
.\"
.\" If you make modified versions of this manual, please notify the current 
.\" maintainers of the package you received this manual from and make your
.\" modified versions available to them.
.\"
.TH DSA 5 "JANUARY 1999" LSH "Lsh Manuals"
.SH NAME
DSA \- Digital Signature Algorithm
.SH DESCRIPTION
DSA is the Digital Signature Algorithm specified in
.BR [DSS],
a standard for public-key based digital signatures from NIST, the
U.S. National Institute for Standards and Technology. 
DSA employs
.BR SHA (5).

For a description of DSS, its history and security, see
.BR [AC2] .
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
.B [DSS]
National Institute of standards and Technology, 
NIST FIPS PUB 186,
.IR "Digital Signature Standard" ,
U.S. Department of Commerce,
May 1994.
.PP
.B [AC2]
Bruce Schneier,
.IR "Applied Cryptography: Protocols, Algorithms and Source Code in C" ,
second edition,
John Wiley and Sons,
1996.
.SH AUTHOR
This man-page was written by J.H.M. Dassen (Ray) <jdassen@wi.LeidenUniv.nl>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lsh_keygen (1)
