.\" COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1999 J.H.M. Dassen (Ray) <jdassen@wi.LeidenUniv.nl>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are 
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a 
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
.\" into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
.\" except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
.\" by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. <URL:http://www.fsf.org>
.\"
.\" END COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE
.\"
.\" If you make modified versions of this manual, please notify the current 
.\" maintainers of the package you received this manual from and make your
.\" modified versions available to them.
.\"
.TH LSHG 1 "NOVEMBER 2004" LSHG "Lsh Manuals"
.SH NAME
lshg \- secsh (SSH2) client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lshg
[\fIOPTION\fR...] HOST [\fiCOMMAND\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B CAUTION! The information in this manpage may be invalid or outdated. For authorative
.B information on lsh, please see it's Texinfo manual (see the
.I SEE\ ALSO
.B section).

Connects to the the remote machine HOST through a previously
established lsh gateway and perform one or more actions, i.e.
command execution, various forwarding services. The default action is
to start a remote interactive shell or execute a given command on the
remote machine.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Print huge amounts of debug information
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-file\fR=\fIFile\fR name
Append messages to this file.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress all warnings and diagnostic messages
.TP
\fB\-\-trace\fR
Detailed trace
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Verbose diagnostic messages
.TP
\fB\-\-askpass\fR=\fIProgram\fR
Program to use for reading passwords. Should be an
absolute filename.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-user\fR=\fIUser\fR name
Login as this user.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR=\fIPort\fR
Connect to this port.
.TP
Actions:
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-background\fR
Put process into the background. Implies \fB\-N\fR.
.HP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-forward\-socks\fR[=\fIport\fR] Enable socks dynamic forwarding
.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-execute\fR=\fIcommand\fR
Execute a command on the remote machine
.HP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-forward\-local\-port\fR=\fIlocal\-port\fR:target-host:target-port
.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-nop\fR
No operation (suppresses the default action, which
is to spawn a remote shell)
.TP
\fB\-\-subsystem\fR=\fIsubsystem\-name\fR
Connect to given subsystem. Implies
\fB\-\-no\-pty\fR.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-shell\fR=\fIcommand\fR
Spawn a remote shell
.TP
Universal not:
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no\fR
Inverts the effect of the next modifier
.TP
Modifiers that apply to port forwarding:
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-remote\-peers\fR
Allow remote access to forwarded ports
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-remote\-peers\fR
Disallow remote access to forwarded ports
(default).
.TP
Modifiers that apply to remote execution:
.TP
\fB\-\-detach\fR
Detach from terminal at session end.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-detach\fR
Do not detach session at end, wait for all open
channels (default).
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-pty\fR
Don't request a remote pty.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-stderr\fR
Redirect stderr to /dev/null
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-stdin\fR
Redirect stdin from /dev/null
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-stdout\fR
Redirect stdout to /dev/null
.TP
\fB\-\-stderr\fR=\fIFilename\fR
Redirect stderr
.TP
\fB\-\-stdin\fR=\fIFilename\fR
Redirect stdin
.TP
\fB\-\-stdout\fR=\fIFilename\fR
Redirect stdout
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-pty\fR
Request a remote pty (default).
.TP
Miscellaneous options:
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-escape\-char\fR=\fICharacter\fR
Escape char. `none' means disable. Default is
to use `~' if we have a tty, otherwise none.
.TP
\fB\-\-write\-pid\fR
Make \fB\-B\fR write the pid of the backgrounded process
to stdout.
.TP
\fB\-G\fR
If no usable gateway is found, launch lsh instead.
.TP
\fB\-\-send\-debug\fR=\fIMessage\fR
Send a debug message to the remote machine.
.TP
\fB\-\-send\-ignore\fR=\fIMessage\fR
Send an ignore message to the remote machine.
.TP
-?, \fB\-\-help\fR
Give this help list
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Give a short usage message
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print program version
.PP
Mandatory or optional arguments to long options are also mandatory or optional
for any corresponding short options.




.SH DIAGNOSTICS
See the 
.B --verbose
,
.B --trace
and 
.B --debug
options.

.SH EXAMPLES
Using the
.B -G
option, for example in 
.B LSHGFLAGS
it's easy to use an existing gateway if there is any and connect using lsh if not.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bug-lsh@gnu.org>.


.SH ENVIRONMENT

.B LSHG_FLAGS
may be used for passing additional parameters. The parsing order is undefined.

.SH COPYING
The lsh suite of programs is distributed under the GNU General Public
License; see the COPYING and AUTHORS files in the source distribution for
details.
.SH AUTHOR
The lsh program suite is written mainly by Niels M\[:o]ller <nisse@lysator.liu.se>.

This man-page was written for lsh 2.0 by Pontus Freyhult
<pont_lsh@soua.net>, it is based on a template written by
J.H.M. Dassen (Ray) <jdassen@wi.LeidenUniv.nl>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lsftp (1),
.BR lsh (1),
.BR lsh-authorize (1),
.BR lsh-export-key (1),
.BR lsh-keygen (1),
.BR lsh-make-seed (1),
.BR lsh-upgrade (1),
.BR lsh-upgrade-key (1),
.BR lsh-writekey (1),
.BR lshd (8),
.BR ssh-conv (1)

The full documentation for
.B lsh
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B lsh
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info lsh
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
