.\" COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1999 J.H.M. Dassen (Ray) <jdassen@wi.LeidenUniv.nl>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are 
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a 
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
.\" into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
.\" except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
.\" by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. <URL:http://www.fsf.org>
.\"
.\" END COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE
.\"
.\" If you make modified versions of this manual, please notify the current 
.\" maintainers of the package you received this manual from and make your
.\" modified versions available to them.
.\"
.TH SECSH 5 "JANUARY 1999" LSH "Lsh Manuals"
.SH NAME
secsh \- the Secure Shell protocol
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B secsh 
is a protocol suite for secure remote login and other secure network
services over an insecure network. It is outlined in
.BR [SECSH] .
It has three major components:
.TP
The Transport layer protocol
This protocol, specified in
.BR [SECSH-TLP] ,
provides server authentication, confidentiality, and integrity with perfect
forward secrecy.
.TP
The User authentication protocol
This protocol, specified in
.BR [SECSH-AUTH] ,
is used to authenticate a client to a server.
.TP
The Connection protocol
This protocol, specified in
.BR [SECSH-CONN] ,
multiplexes an encrypted tunnel into several logical channels.
.SH IMPLEMENTATIONS
Several implementations of the secsh protocol suite exist.

The 
.B SSH2
product of SSH Communications Security Ltd., Finland <URL:http://www.ssh.fi>
was the first. The secsh protocol suite has benefited a lot from their
experience with their older SSH1 product, which is still in widespread use;
it implements an older protocol
.RB ( [SSH1] ).

The
.B lsh 
suite of programs is a free implementation of the secsh protocol suite; it
is distributed under the GNU General Public License.

.SH REFERENCES
.PP
.B [SECSH-ARCH]
T. Ylonen, T. Kivinen, M. Saarinen, T. Rinne and S. Lehtinen,
.IR "SSH Protocol Architecture" ,
Internet draft,
6 August 1998
.PP
.B [SECSH-TRANS]
T. Ylonen, T. Kivinen, M. Saarinen, T. Rinne and S. Lehtinen,
.IR "SSH Transport Layer Protocol" ,
Internet draft,
6 August 1998
.PP
.B [SECSH-AUTH]
T. Ylonen, T. Kivinen, M. Saarinen, T. Rinne and S. Lehtinen,
.IR "SSH Authentication Protocol" ,
Internet draft,
6 August 1998
.PP
.B [SECSH-CONN]
T. Ylonen, T. Kivinen, M. Saarinen, T. Rinne and S. Lehtinen
.IR "SSH Connection Protocol" ,
Internet draft,
6 August 1998
.PP
.B [SSH1]
T. Ylonen,
.IR "The SSH (Secure Shell) Remote Login Protocol" ,
Internet draft (expired),
15 November 1995
.SH TRADEMARKS
SSH and Secure Shell are trademarks or registered trademarks of SSH
Communications Security Ltd.
.SH AUTHOR
This man-page was written by J.H.M. Dassen (Ray) <jdassen@wi.LeidenUniv.nl>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lsh (1),
.BR lshd (8),
.BR ssh2 (1),
.BR sshd2 (8),
.BR ssh1 (1),
.BR sshd1 (8)
