.\" COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1999 J.H.M. Dassen (Ray) <jdassen@wi.LeidenUniv.nl>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are 
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a 
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
.\" into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
.\" except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
.\" by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. <URL:http://www.fsf.org>
.\"
.\" END COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE
.\"
.\" If you make modified versions of this manual, please notify the current 
.\" maintainers of the package you received this manual from and make your
.\" modified versions available to them.
.\"
.TH SPKI 5 "JANUARY 1999" LSH "Lsh Manuals"
.SH NAME
SPKI \- Simple Public Key Infrastructure formats
.SH DESCRIPTION
The IETF Simple Public Key Infrastructure Working Group has defined a format
for storing, transmitting and manipulating certificates to support security
in a wide range of Internet applications which will require the use of
public key certificates.

For the definition of the SPKI format, please refer to
.BR [SPKI] .

The format of SPKI objects is a simplified form of S\-expression. An
S\-expression is a list enclosed in matching "(" and ")", similar to the
recursive list data structure in of the LISP and Scheme programming
languages.
.SH Canonical S\-expression
A canonical S\-expression is a unique representation of an S\-expression 
which may contain arbitrary binary byte strings. For transport over a 7-bit
channel, it may be base64 (see 
.BR [RFC2045] )
encoded.  
.SH Advanced S\-expression
The advanced S\-expression format is a complexer form of an S-expression
which is not necessarily unique. It is more suited for human reading than
the canonical S\-expression format.
.SH EXAMPLE
Examples SPKI certificates can be found in 
.BR [SPKI] .
.SH REFERENCES
.TP
<URL:http://www.clark.net/pub/cme/html/spki.html>
Home-page of the IETF SPKI working group.
.TP
<URL:http://theory.lcs.mit.edu/~rivest/sexp.html>
Home-page of the S\-expression technology.
.PP
Carl M. Ellison,
.IR "SPKI Requirements" ,
Internet draft, 
.nf
.if n <URL:http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-spki-cert-req-02.txt>,
.if t <URL:http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/internet-drafts/\\
.if t		draft-ietf-spki-cert-req-02.txt>,
.fi
24 October 1998.
.PP
.B [SPKI]
Carl M. Ellison, Bill Frantz, Butler Lampson, Ron Rivest, Brian M. Thomas
and Tatu Ylonen,
.IR "Simple Public Key Certificate" ,
Internet draft (expired),
.nf
.if n <URL:http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-spki-cert-structure-05.txt>,
.if t <URL:http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/internet-drafts/\\
.if t		draft-ietf-spki-cert-structure-05.txt>,
.fi
13 March 1998.
.PP
Carl M. Ellison, Bill Frantz, Butler Lampson, Ron Rivest, Brian M. Thomas
and Tatu Ylonen,
.IR "SPKI Certificate Theory" ,
Internet draft, 
.nf
.if n  <URL:http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-spki-cert-theory-04.txt>,
.if t  <URL:http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/internet-drafts/\\
.if t		draft-ietf-spki-cert-theory-04.txt>,
.fi
17 November 1998.
.PP
Carl M. Ellison, Bill Frantz, Butler Lampson, Ron Rivest, Brian M. Thomas
and Tatu Ylonen,
.IR "SPKI Examples",
Internet draft (expired), 
.nf
.if n <URL:http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-spki-cert-examples-01.txt>,
.if t <URL:http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/\\
.if t		draft-ietf-spki-cert-examples-01.txt>,
.fi
10 March 1998.
.PP
.B [RFC2045]
N. Freed and N. Borenstein,
.I "Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part One:" 
.IR "Format of Internet Message Bodies",
2 December 1996.
.SH AUTHOR
This man-page was written by J.H.M. Dassen (Ray) <jdassen@wi.LeidenUniv.nl>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lsh_keygen (1)
