.\" COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1999 J.H.M. Dassen (Ray) <jdassen@wi.LeidenUniv.nl>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are 
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a 
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
.\" into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
.\" except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
.\" by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. <URL:http://www.fsf.org>
.\"
.\" END COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE
.\"
.\" If you make modified versions of this manual, please notify the current 
.\" maintainers of the package you received this manual from and make your
.\" modified versions available to them.
.\"
.TH SSH-CONV 1 "NOVEMBER 2004" SSH-CONV "Lsh Manuals"
.SH NAME
ssh-conv \- script to convert OpenSSH/SSH2 keys to lsh format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ssh-conv 
[\fIOPTION\fR...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B CAUTION! The information in this manpage may be invalid or outdated. For authorative
.B information on lsh, please see it's Texinfo manual (see the
.I SEE\ ALSO
.B section).

Converts an OpenSSH style public key to spki format used by lsh. Reads the key from 
stdin and outputs the converted key on stdout.

Example usage:

.PD 0
$ ssh-conv < /home/pont/.ssh/id_dsa.pub
.PP
lsh-decode-key: lsh-decode-key: Reading key of type ssh-dss...
.PP
{KDEwOnB1YmxpYy1rZXkoMzpkc2EoMTpwMTI5OgD1qRFBMowgnnOzjOp3HptHWf9836wy/3
 F59d8DfWWehKgy8DNISgmzCnRNXReL/5PvTZwFID2KvEYfyxAYy4uTSJbtkzDfsicGWi7n
 YbXu2VpWHpNdhsaKrEu9iXmQb4JoN1grC0QsaCZrngACZRKEAklPH9ubwCMBK55yRP27gy
 koMTpxMjE6AIoOrpe064y7L2oYQqBE3sNskW19KSgxOmcxMjg6Olyu4xMIWsUBeVnbg2oU
 BvvbcsnHHhHyDVHmMZ1ERhDCLl6gjIsbWjBIBIXZUaFJ6AO236CfgdM5Rop5XYmcIIA9G7
 QD2GWTe48MGdjFQVyr2SKoDiNFKSJXqHVYzZJeosvz6FyTDt7aGNGqcL0tG7GXl9savALt
 RSQRfO9JlOcpKDE6eTEyOToAwyzp6sIt6KsLhFoeM9ADA7opHq4lFT6bS8su9g3KBGqGG4
 JNsEN9CI5SnLpqsfVm5SxmqPMPJvdGVOqAjjfzsv7SvfhSBUHXYeYpgci49pfc5bZCh/EY
 zX7bVnOVV3gQgNGeT0FN1gf9vTUMKh1VGPRfm7unXNqjBLEMYmlRwqcpKSk=}
.PP
$
.PP
.PD


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-\-decode\-with\fR PROGRAM-NAME
The program to use for the
actual decoding.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bug-lsh@gnu.org>.


.SH COPYING
The lsh suite of programs is distributed under the GNU General Public
License; see the COPYING and AUTHORS files in the source distribution for
details.
.SH AUTHOR
The lsh program suite is written mainly by Niels M\[:o]ller <nisse@lysator.liu.se>.

This man-page was written for lsh 2.0 by Pontus Freyhult
<pont_lsh@soua.net>, it is based on a template written by
J.H.M. Dassen (Ray) <jdassen@wi.LeidenUniv.nl>.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lsftp (1),
.BR lshg (1),
.BR lsh-authorize (1),
.BR lsh-decode-key (1),
.BR lsh-decrypt-key (1),
.BR lsh-export-key (1),
.BR lsh-keygen (1),
.BR lsh-make-seed (1),
.BR lsh-upgrade (1),
.BR lsh-upgrade-key (1),
.BR lsh-writekey (1),
.BR lshd (8)


The full documentation for
.B lsh
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B lsh
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info lsh
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
